Okie-dokie, how did that feel?
Hopefully, we all came up with a solution.
There are several different ways that
we could map this array, if you will.
So a few suggestions here in the hints.
So, yeah, we're gonna be passing
in a function to array.map and
we're probably gonna wanna use the split
method on our resolution strings to get
out those two different values for
width and height.
And then there are several
different ways that we can convert
strings to numeric values, but
one quick and handy way is to precede
the string with a plus operator for
quick integer numbers like this.
So putting that all together
in the solution field,
you can find one possible way to do this.
There are several other ways
of course that we could find.
So let's just paste this in here.
So, what we've got is we
are first of all taking in each
element in our dataset, so
each row in this data as a datum.
You could also for example destructure
the value here to pull out the values that
we care about, the different properties
that we have they're totally fine.
In any case, we're probably gonna wanna
split out that resolution field on
the X delimiter to pull it into, and
here we're using a little destructuring
to grab the two values of the array
that's gonna result as width and height.
And then what we're gonna return for
each element that comes in this D element,
we're gonna return a similar looking
object that has the same device and
resolution.
It also has those width and height values.
And again, we're using the plus operator
here to convert those two numbers instead
of the original strings.
And then we're mapping the users and
sessions over from the original again,
using that plus operator to convert them.
So, again this is one way of taking
care of this yours might look
a little different,
feel free to share your solutions but
in any case what we want to end on now.
If we check out one of our elements and
we can do that by clicking these little
carrots to expand In the arrays and
objects here
we see we have the same strings for
device on resolution that's fine.
But then we have numbers for
width height as separate columns or
separate properties on each of these
data objects and then users and
sessions again are no longer strings.
So that's the important thing
that we're gonna be looking for
in order to move on successfully
to the next exercises.
So if you got different data formats,
if you have strings for
any of these values,
just try copying over that solution so
that we have the data in
the right format to press on.
And draw some things on the screen
which is our goal here.
All right, any questions so far?
Again, this is just some little
lightweight data wrangling,
it gets a lot more complex as we
deal with more intricate datasets.
But just a taste of the type of quick
little transformations that we're gonna
find ourselves having to do a lot as we're
working with data in the real world.
Okie-dokie, so
I don't think there's too many questions.
So let's move on to visualizing the data
which is our whole point of being here.
Okay, so the first thing we
might wanna ask ourselves if
we're looking at a data set like this is,
all right,
I have these different device
categories; desktop, tablet, mobile.
How many users are there that represent
each of those device categories?
And so what we wanna do is break down
our data which is split up into all of
the different resolutions observed for
each of the different devices types.
What we wanna do is aggregate
that data together so
that we get the total for
each of the different device types.
And as we mentioned a while ago,
we have the concept in the grammar
of graphics which is implemented
by plot of transforms which
are ways of transforming the data and
often aggregating the data.
In this case, we want to aggregate
data by group based on a particular
value in the data set in this case,
the device property or column.
And so the group transform that plot
exposes and you can read all about in
the link documentation there,
does this type of aggregation for us?
It essentially lets us specify
a categorical property where a categorical
property is one where the values
are in distinct categories.
As opposed to a continuous
property where we have for
example the number of users is on
a continuous spectrum of numbers,
so that would be a continuous property.
What we're gonna do with the group
transform is tell plot, okay,
this is a categorical variable or
a categorical property of the data
that I want you to compute
a grouping aggregation based on.
And so that can let us do
things like compute the sum, or
the count, or
the proportion of values in each category.
So plot exposes a few different
aggregation functions
that we can use in a transform like this.
So let's take a look at an example
of an aggregated visualization.
Not the most exciting one but
we're gonna make it more exciting.
So this is a bar chart that essentially
shows the total frequency in our data set.
So the number of observations in our
data set of each of the categories.
So we see a bar for our desktop that shows
that that is the most frequently observed
category, mobile being the next, and
then tablet being much less frequent.
So let's take a look at the code that
we use to build that visualization.
You will notice a slight difference
from our last plot examples, so
last time we saw we were
calling plot.plot and
then passing in a marks array which
in our last example I had plot.sell.
But we might have some other types
of marks like bar for example.
In this example we're gonna see
a slightly different syntax
where here we're calling the mark itself.
So, in this case it's the bar Y,
meaning vertical bars mark,
in our previous example
would've been plot.sell.
So we're calling that and
then after passing in all of
the necessary values to that,
which we'll look at in a second,
then we're calling .plot chained
onto that call to the mark.
So these are two different ways that you
can equally like valid ways of using plot.
Essentially when I only have one type of
mark instead of passing in that whole
marks array an arguably quicker way to do
it is to just call that mark directly and
then call .plot chain after that.
Both of them are totally valid, feel free
to rearrange the code if you find one or
the other easier to think about.
Okay, so what's happening inside
of our call to the bar Y mark?
So first of all,
we're passing in the data again.
In this case, it's called
devices because that is what we
named the output of our
mapped wrangled array here.
So the devices arrays
are properly wrangled data.
The device analytics arrays are
pre-wrangled, not quite ready yet data.
So we're gonna be using our devices data
and then we're calling as the input,
as the options essentially for
this bar Y mark,
we're calling plots group
transform function.
And in this case since
we have vertical bars,
bar Y we're calling group X meaning
across the X axis horizontally.
That's where we wanna be defining
those different groups based
on our categorical variable.
So if you wanted to,
let's say have horizontal bars
with the groupings vertically,
you could swap those letters and call
bar X with group Y, if that makes sense.
So essentially we wanna be
grouping on the perpendicular
axis to the one that we want
the height of our bars.
As we go through if folks have
questions about swapping those out,
we can totally tackle that.
Okay, so the way these group transforms
work is they expect an input and
an output.
So these transform functions,
they take an input from the data.
In this case, we're saying the input
that we want for this calculation.
So the the categorical variable that we're
interested in grouping by that is device.
And because we're doing
the groupings along the X axis,
we're gonna pass that property just as we
did before with our mappings to channels,
we're gonna pass that into the X channel.
And so we're gonna be grouping
on that same channel,
that X channel that is receiving
these different device values.
So, the second argument to this group
X call is going to be our input to
the transform function.
And in this case,
it's saying we want to group by device and
we're grouping along the X axis.
And then the output is going to be
essentially how high each of those
vertical bars should be for
each of the different device categories.
So that means in this case we're doing an
aggregation of the count of observations.
Later we'll look at some different
aggregations that we could be
using here these are kind of built
in functions that plot comes with.
So in this case the count function is
going to say, okay, for each of these
different devices for each of the
categories that, that variable includes,
make the value that I care about as
the output of this group transform.
Make that the count of observations
that I saw for that device category.
And because again we're drawing
bars on the Y axis we want
to map that output to the Y
channel to say I want the height
of each of these vertical bars,
to correspond to that aggregated count.
For each of the device categories that
I'm drawing along the X axis with
that group X function.
So if this takes a little while to wrap
your head around do not worry you are in
good company.
But essentially the important thing to
remember here is that we have the inputs
as the second argument, and then we
have the outputs as the first argument.
And the combination of the two is gonna
say, okay, I want you to take in this
categorical variable and
I want you to output this aggregation.
And then in our call to .plot
we also have those generic
properties of the overall chart.
So for example, the margins.